The committee counsel is special investigating counsel, Ray Jenkins of Tennessee.
And now let's turn to Mr. Jenkins who is speaking now.
Mr. Stevens, as I recall, a nice question I asked you, prior to adjournment for the lunch hour,
was whether or not, in your opinion, this investigation of Port Monmouth was unfair to
the Army, considering the results of the thing.
A transcript of the record discloses that your answer was as follows.
The results of our as a publicity was concerned with extremely unpack.
You were called getting the manager answered to that question.
Yes sir. I'll ask you this, Mr. Stevens.
Do you know how to make that it was a saluted thing in part of the American public to know
that there was an active agency such as the McCarthy Committee investigating
alleged infiltration of communists in the Army and other departments of the government?
Yes sir. I think it was a good thing for the...
A good thing, you're not looking at that, you're not looking at the Army.
A good thing for the public, no sir, and as I said before, I,
plead for you, in favor of working with these committees in investigations.
The only thing that I objected to was the manner in which the hearings were held and the
publicity was generated.
Mr. Stevens, honor about the fifth day of March of this year.
You released a document called a series of events,
and which were published in the newspapers as I recall on March 11th.
When you say, relates, sir, we sent them to the members of this committee and to the members
of the Congress who had asked for it. We did not make a public.
It was made by the power of the 11th day of March,
just a...
And the countercharges are certain memorandum of the McCarthy Committee were released the following day.
Yes sir.
When did you and I released this series of events, which you sent to the certain members of this committee,
contained the how many different events?
Anyway, it was embodied in a possible mid-34 page, not advised, that correct, yes sir.
And was published in the newspapers. It was published.
When did you begin the preparation of that, Mr. Stevens of that document consisting of 34 pages?
Well, I didn't... I didn't prepare.
May I ask who did prepare?
It was prepared in the office of the General Counsel of the Department of Defense.
And why did he need his name as Mr. Hemsle?
Mr. Strew the Hemsle and I had heard him in it.
And say, was prepared in his office.
I said under his supervision, many observations who did prepare
the gentleman that I thought to was Mr. Brown.
And the preparation of that was supervised by Mr. Strew Hemsle.
That I believe is correct and I think it's covered by the letter that
transmitted the analogy to that sign of the part.
Have you read Mr. Hemsle's reply?
Actually, I have not read it in detail. No sir.
Have you read the...
I've been in the newspapers.
I know what it is in the name.
Yes.
Do you know that he displeams any personal knowledge whatsoever
of the events that occurred from mid-July?
I've been in your life and come back to the Senate and record the on-genuary for seems.
I don't think I had any connection with it at all.
Not only had any connection with it, but he had no knowledge, you have it to me.
I don't think I had any knowledge.
I didn't know it was you.
That's right.
Can you explain why he supervised the preparation of it?
Why he supervised the preparation?
Yes.
Not having any personal knowledge?
Well, if the letter began to have knowledge of it,
I think you set up for January 14th.
I think Mr. Hemsle began to have knowledge of it
from around about the 26th or 25th of February.
And you say there was Mr. Brown who actually prepared it?
Well, Mr. Brown, I understand as run as in the Donald Council's office,
the Department of Defense.
Now, where did Mr. Brown get his information upon which he prepared that 34 page document?
He called upon the Department of Army to submit its files
containing the material relating to it.
Did the files contain all reports of all these conversations, Mr. Siemens?
I was a report made by you and Mr. Adams, our Mr. Adams, from Henry.
Well, I only know about the part that I was connected with myself.
That is Mr. Brown came to the office and we discussed the parts
and but I have to acknowledge.
I told it.
From time to time, from the early September beginning with your trip from Montana back to Washington.
Did you daily are of only occurrence of these events,
making memory in the modern art?
Did you later just try to mark, and in early March, from memory,
from time to time, I read all these events.
Most of my material is from memory.
Some of it's from memory, and other things.
Now you have testified about a meeting in the Cheyenne apartment on September 16.
That's why I ask you if it isn't a fact that that meeting is not mentioned in either this
compilation, this 34 page compilation of events, or in the specifications.
Yes, file that your attorney is looking for that information.
We give us the full name of the initials of Mr. Brown who prepared this 34 page document under the
supervision of Mr. Hensel.
And is official position with the Department of Defense?
I'll get it for you.
Very good.
I ask you if it isn't a fact, now, as I understand it, you testify.
Here, my Thursday, our Friday, Friday, I'm sure, that on the occasion of this meeting in the
Cheyenne apartment in New York City on September 16, Senator McCarthy asked you for a permission
for the Cheyenne.
Isn't it a fact Mr. Stevens?
That in neither this 34 page document inside of those events,
all the specifications that his charges get, while such a meeting mentioned,
is that correct or not?
I think it is, but that's been checked, Mr. Jenkins.
Can you explain to Mr. Midee why such an important event is that in which this first request
to make it was made for the Senate to be used?
Why was it made from both the events and the specifications?
I don't allow it.
You don't know why?
Now, sir, you think that your recollection now that you testify here under oath is better than
it was when these events and the specifications were prepared?
Well, I suppose as I thought about this thing, and that my memory naturally has been sharpened
up, Mr. Jenkins, on some point, as to why that second item was not in it, it was not in,
I just don't know.
You certainly gave it to this consideration before that Mr.
Stevens will prepare, did you not, Mr. Stevens?
Well, I don't know that I did.
I don't know that the analogy that was originally published was not necessarily
was intended to cover every single thing.
This is fine, I'll have to tell you about that.
But as we understand it, that is the first over-act on the part of the senator in seeking
preference or treatment for David Shines.
Now is your explanation of the leaving of that out in the events and the specifications
of a lack of memory on the subject?
Are the two forgot to include it?
Is that your explanation?
I just don't know why it was left out.
You testified further about a meeting on September 21st, here in Washington.
I'll ask you a further amount on medication, general cartridge, respect.
I think it was, you guys.
As you asked.
Isn't it a fact that likewise in both your 34-page document and tag of it as I have
signed your specifications, that meeting was entirely omitted?
That was an executive meeting of this committee.
What is that?
You reasoned for having only a date.
In your events as well as in the specifications, the fact that it was an executive meeting?
It was an executive meeting, yes, and I didn't consider since the issues here were not discussed.
That there was any particular reason to include that executive meeting of this committee.
You were having a meeting in both your events and specifications.
I referenced this to certainly say that meetings have you not been asked for.
Then do we understand that the reason it was omitted was not the causes, it was an executive meeting,
but the causes were nothing of interest discussed.
Is that now your explanation?
I would say that I wouldn't say that there was nothing in there in the course of the hearing.
I wasn't aware of this to discuss, but it was an executive session.
I wouldn't have thought it would have been a session.
Well, there were discussions banging upon the issues of this controversy where they're not meant to see them.
And the which you testified about in your direct examination?
I think that the dental parkour should appear in the witness.
Yes, I don't know whether it had to do with issues which we're talking about there.
Not.
We identified General Patrice and where he visited him,
do you see the things in the area?
The dental parkour was the efficiency staff,
the two, which is in charge of intelligence.
He charged him in time, that's right.
And it was a piloting and DD2 investigation, the information,
how many of this are extremely ordinary ones?
That's right.
Did you later remove them from that home?
No sir, we had a new chief of staff come in and August the last year.
And in the course of a new chief of staff taking over,
it's perfectly normal procedure for him to make changes in the chief staff position.
And he made a number of them and an inputting dental parkour.
Do you know when General Patrice was released from his post of intelligence?
I can't remember the exact date I'd say it was approximately.
Well, I should think it was probably November.
Well, the number of the investigation was in charge of it, but I think so.
I think so.
And is it the fact that you told Senator McCarthy and members of his staff
that after each new nothing, whatever about intelligence,
are the duties pertaining to that particular post?
That is positively not a fact.
positively not the fact.
And he was removed not by you, but the Secretary of Defense
are chief of staff.
Chief of staff and dental Ridgeway made a change of any staff
and he bought in General Trudeau from Korea as a chief to in charge of intelligence.
Mr. Secretary, you tell us just a bad omeric examination
about the meeting of September 28th.
Do you recall that?
No, I don't recall after you told me all that at the moment.
No, I don't.
I do.
I request my number.
You see that is his name.
The meeting of September 28th is mentioned neither in the events.
The 34 pages.
A combination of events are the specifications.
That is correct, isn't it?
I think that's correct.
The record was so, of course, what your testimony was about the meeting of September 28th.
Now on September 29th, I'll ask you whether or not
that was the occasion of the wedding day of Senator McCarthy.
That was?
You offended that meeting.
I did.
Of all the invitation of the senator.
Correct?
I'll ask you if you didn't see the blood-weating or sand with one day's shine.
Very close proximity, but on first part,
everything to him, I don't talk to him on that occasion.
I'm sorry.
Did you make an engagement to see him at a later date on that occasion?
I don't think so, that.
You don't think you did, do you deny that you did?
I do not recall that I did.
If you did, would you have any idea
on the purpose of a future meeting between you, the secretary of the army and this boy,
who was not land in the army?
Well, yes, I think that's a valid possible.
David Chyne, he wanted to talk to me, he wanted to talk about his
future military, but didn't you initiate the conversation and tell him
that the following day are shortly as I asked her.
You wanted to see him and talk to him that it was no time or place to talk to him
on the waiting day of the senator.
I don't ever call that.
You do not recall it, you do not deny it.
I don't ever call it, but I do not deny it.
When you examine that there, and I'm sure your lawyer will face you,
your offense about two or two seconds.
And while I've seen done, let me ask you the question.
Isn't it a fact that in the document referred to as a vance,
you state that right home spoke to you about David Chyne on October 2nd.
Well, as in your specifications, you say that both call and car
self-facial favors for David Chyne.
They whether or not that is the fact,
and if you have any explanation of that discrepancy,
you may give it to the committee at this time.
Well, I think that I said in my testimony on this point that Mr. Colman
did most of the talking on this subject.
I do not recall where the conditions are before you,
and you may be positive about it this next day.
Mr. Chairman,
but I say the word of our specifications, I'm not familiar,
myself, that your statements would be quick to say that our specifications were prepared,
with great speed and under great pressure.
I am trying to say they weren't finished in the small hours of the morning,
and I think Mr. Jenkins would do me the credit of saying we were more closely on schedule
on our specifications than was the other side.
See that as it may.
They were also the specifications,
and they were also based on information from Mr. Adams.
But I would like, although it's not comfortable for me to say so,
that if there are defects in the specifications of old missions,
the chances are very good that my young friends who lie to regularly admire and myself
are very much to blame.
Mr. Stevens did not stand at my stand-up desk late in the night while we whiffed those out.
It was Mr. Saint Leon I of a digit.
Mr. Chairman, this is of course a difficult task to interrupt such a gracious gentleman,
Mr. Wells, but those are proper matters for him to show off all the closest dimensions.
I beg your pardon.
And your opportunity will come.
My Mr. Stevens,
did you not go to Mr. Adams on October 15th?
With reference to David Cheyenne,
and particularly with reference to getting a commission for him,
I went to Mr. Dallas for that, was not on October 15th.
What was he?
It was on the 28th, thank you pardon.
I covered 28.
You went personally, who was down in that as a detective?
He was director of the Central Intelligence Agency, still in.
And that is a department of the Army, where men, especially qualified in investigations,
are sent for training and for commissioning.
Now it's completely in the fund agency, as nothing to do with the Army,
except to the expense of its work as coordinated with Army and other military services.
You say that was on October 28th?
That's right.
Nearly two months.
I said you say these impregnities started by the committee.
My favorite for Cheyenne is I ride up.
At whose instance did you go to see Alan Dallas?
Your own or not of the senator?
I was to call him or anyone else?
That's my I came up on the telephone.
And Mr. Colne called me and said that he had two.
Matters in mind was respect to Mr. Shaw.
One was a possible furlough that might be grand as immediately on Mr. Shaw
and being inducted.
And the other was the possibility that CIA might have some use for Mr. Shaw.
And I said, well, I'll go and ask Mr. Dallas if he can use Mr. Shaw.
And I did that.
And he said that he could not use him and I so reported to Mr. Colne.
If he could use Mr. Shaw in any work of acting.
In any capacity?
Well, did you consider that an act on your part's design
that's two favorite David Shaw?
I consider it as an act of co-operation
in the as a result of the telephone conversation
when Mr. Colne called me with respect to David Shaw.
I ask you whether or not
mentioned is made of that act on your part.
Regardless of how this committee concludes it,
in either the 34-page compilation of events
are the specifications.
However, if I may, they're trying to look that up and say,
I can't answer at the moment.
Did you ever tell a shane yourself that you wanted him in intelligence
that I wanted him in intelligence?
No, I don't remember that.
I talked with members.
Early part of this thing that was a good deal of discussion.
Like the time I rode down with him in the car
from up time New York when I was discussing my private.
Yes, intelligence matters were discussed.
We shane.
Yes.
I say, I say, I say, I say, I say, I say, I say, Iован.
That was deering the period of the McCarthy investigation,
what that's all right.
Mr. Dallas, expect to.
That was not a part of your pattern.
The whole list by shane is a sort of a hostage
and using as a bait for the purpose of a baiting
this investigation was certainly not.
And if he was a hostage, so have hundreds of thousands,
if not millions of young Americans,
then hostages will be doing their duty
and then service for their country.
I believe you are in the hospital.
I have to ask you a question.
Is it being held in the bank?
If it's been clear, are you ready?
Yeah, not fine.
I believe you had a meeting about
what you testified on November 6th, Mr. Sector.
In your office, did you not?
Yes, sir.
Will you tell us again who was that?
That is McCarthy, Colin Carr, Adams and myself
for a one half of the meeting.
And then for the last half of the meeting,
General Ridgeway, General Trudeau, and General Mugin.
I will ask you whether or not Mr. Sector Perry,
you all medication likewise invited
one gee-baby chimes to attend as your gift.
November 6th, at which time
did he have a safe trip and had a chair there
for a gee-baby chimes expressed great disappointment
that he did not attend with the senator in his back.
Well, David Chan, at this time, was in the arms.
He was, he had gone in on the 3rd of November.
He was assigned, as you know, in the first instance
to temporary duty, in 1st Army in New York.
And, with the idea of being available for committee work,
now, David Chan was in Washington on that particular day.
I would have been glad to have him come along
as the member of the staff of this committee.
I do not have a call having specifically invited him
to the lunch.
You say he was in the army?
Yes.
Don't you know that he did not report to Fort Deeks
until November 10th?
Four days after the date about which time
questioning you?
Yes, I know that.
Very well.
Now, Mr. Sector, I observe that in answer to certain questions
I ask you, you are extremely positive.
There you don't appear to be a parent.
I ask you again.
Isn't it a fact that you specifically
are the question senator McCarthy and Roy Coles
to bring David Chan to the Pentagon
to your office on November 6th for a luncheon with you?
If he had, if he was in town, I would have been delighted to have him.
I get up.
That, that, that, that, I should meet Mr. Chairman
as my, how nice of my question.
Now, I ask you again.
Did you earn my phone at 6th day of November
and by David Chan to the Pentagon
do you office for lunch?
I definitely do.
Senator McCarthy and Roy Coles.
I definitely do not recall having done so.
Where do you have a pressure recollection?
Do you remember Mr. Secretary?
That you have this?
A table?
That was food?
Already?
For all your games, after five or one week of chalice.
I, I don't recall.
I see. They all may well have been.
And do you remember the set first for the actions
in by the G, G, G, David Chan?
Now sir, I do not recall that.
And do you remember telling Senator McCarthy and Roy Coles
that you were especially disappointed
that David Chan is not a fan?
I do not.
Do you deny?
Do I deny?
I have no recollection of having invited David Chan.
I would have been delighted for him to come.
You would have been delighted for him to come.
If they wanted to bring him as a member of the fair.
In spite of all the sturdy efforts that have pressure you,
you still would have been delighted for him to come on November 6th.
Well, the reason that space, Fort Monmouth's investigation
was a subject, I suppose subject for discussion.
And did you not tell Senator McCarthy and Roy Coles
on by the case of the six?
That you wanted your picture taken with David Chan?
I doubt very much that I did.
What do you doubt any other events of November 6th about the Chavez?
I just need to be pretty positive about the picture.
And rather, he'll be about what you invited him there, not?
I do not recall having invited David Chan.
He'll be the Secretary of the House.
Mr. Coles, another step to bad.
That's the fact you're not in position to not deny it.
Is that working saying?
Well, I'd like to hear the testimony.
What possibly could have been your purpose?
In inviting David Chan there on the 6th day of November
to lunch with you, the Secretary of the Army,
give it for not for the purpose of offering his best service week.
Sweet Morgans, the best service to Loa's week.
This three-headed officer, the G-SIG, was about to devour you.
Well, I certainly have no such idea, Mr. Jenkins.
Well, why would you avoid him that?
Well, give not for that reason.
Only because he's a member of Santa McCarty's staff
and Santa McCarty wanted him to come.
It would have been perfectly all right, wouldn't he?
He was there, and he's resting in the army.
That's right.
Great pressure has been exerted upon you, you say?
For some wrenching treatment.
Right.
And get his file out of that.
And in spite of all the vertigation that was going on,
you now deny that the only partnership that plus me have had in mind
and in getting him there was to press a file to send it out
and get him off of your naked fort mom.
I completely deny that.
Of that, now you're 100 percent sure.
Is that right?
Yes.
Mr. Secretary.
Thank goodness I'm about to.
One other serious charge has been made against you.
And that is from time to time, you offered up a figure made
even than a giant of this committee to let you alone to win.
They are the forms of the Navy.
If being a lady that you tried to divert this committee
from the army to the other fours of the Navy.
What do you say about that charge?
I say it's an unequivocal law.
Now, last year's one case of this investigation
about which your men may have been facing.
That certainly has not.
Well, I want to read you.
And next, sir, from your testimony.
I believe you would need it.
That you did try to prevail upon the committee to suspend the operations
as far as the investigation report might as this concerns.
I wanted to change the type of care.
As far as the investigation is concerned, it could go out along.
Question, and this is from the record of April 23rd.
Thank you.